[Doc][Misc] Update Qwen3-Dense & Qwen3-235B-A22B documentation (#10728)
vllm-project/vllm-ascend: docs/source/tutorials/models/Qwen3-235B-A22B.md

## 2 Supported Features

Please refer to the [Supported Features List](../../user_guide/support_matrix/supported_models.md) for the model support matrix.

Please refer to the [Feature Guide](../../user_guide/feature_guide/index.md) for feature configuration information.

## 3 Prerequisites

### 3.1 Model Weight

The following model variants are available. It is recommended to download the model weight to a shared directory accessible to all nodes.

**BF16 Version:**

| Model | Hardware Requirement | Download |
|-------|---------------------|----------|
| Qwen3-235B-A22B (BF16) | 1 Atlas 800I A5 (112G × 8), 1 Atlas 800I A3 (64G × 16), 1 Atlas 800I A2 (64G × 8)| [Download](https://www.modelscope.cn/models/Qwen/Qwen3-235B-A22B) |

**Quantized Version (Pre-converted):**

| Model | Quantization | Hardware Requirement | Download |
|-------|-------------|---------------------|----------|
| Qwen3-235B-A22B-W8A8 | W8A8 | 1 Atlas 800I A3 (64G × 16), 1 Atlas 800I A2 (64G × 8)| [Download](https://modelers.cn/models/Modelers_Park/Qwen3-235B-A22B-w8a8) |

These are the recommended numbers of cards, which can be adjusted according to the actual situation.

> ### 3.2 Model Quantization (Optional)

Reviewer: "Optional" is a template writing instruction and should be removed from the final document.

**Install msmodelslim:**

```shell
# 1. Clone the msmodelslim repository.
git clone https://gitcode.com/Ascend/msmodelslim.git

# 2. Enter the msmodelslim directory and run the installation script.
cd msmodelslim
bash install.sh

# The following message indicates that msmodelslim has been installed successfully.
Successfully installed msmodelslim-{version}
```

**Run quantization:**

```shell
cd examples/Qwen3-MOE
# Run the following command to quantize the model.
python3 quant_qwen_moe_w8a8.py --model_path /path/to/your/Qwen3-235B-A22B \
    --save_path /path/to/your/Qwen3-235B-A22B-W8A8-rot \
    --anti_dataset ../common/qwen3-moe_anti_prompt_50.json \
    --calib_dataset ../common/qwen3-moe_calib_prompt_50.json \
    --trust_remote_code True \
    --rot
```

> ### 3.3 Verify Multi-node Communication (Optional)

Reviewer: "Optional" is a template writing instruction and should be removed from the final document.

# Qwen3-235B-A22B

## 1 Introduction

Qwen3 is the latest generation of large language models in Qwen series, offering a comprehensive suite of dense and mixture-of-experts (MoE) models. Built upon extensive training, Qwen3 delivers groundbreaking advancements in reasoning, instruction-following, agent capabilities, and multilingual support. Qwen3-235B-A22B is the largest MoE variant, featuring 235B total parameters with 22B activated per token.

This document will demonstrate the main validation steps for Qwen3-235B-A22B in the vLLM-Ascend environment, including supported features, environment preparation, single-node and multi-node deployment, accuracy and performance evaluation.

> The Qwen3-235B-A22B model is first supported in **v0.8.4rc2**. This document is validated and written based on **vLLM-Ascend v0.21.0**. All **v0.21.0 and later versions** can run stably. To use the latest features, it is recommended to use v0.21.0 or a later version.

Reviewer 2: we should recommend users to use the latest release candidate version and official version.

> The Qwen3-235B-A22B model is first supported in **v0.8.4rc2**. This document is validated and written based on **vLLM-Ascend v0.21.0**. All **v0.21.0 and later versions** can run stably. To use the latest features, it is recommended to use v0.21.0 or a later version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Qwen3-235B-A22B model is first supported in **v0.8.4rc2**. This document is validated and written based on **vLLM-Ascend v0.21.0**. All **v0.21.0 and later versions** can run stably. To use the latest features, it is recommended to use the latest release candidate or official  version.
```

```bash
# Example configuration: benchmarks/ais_bench/benchmark/configs/models/vllm_api/vllm_api_general_chat.py
from ais_bench.benchmark.models import VLLMCustomAPIChat
from ais_bench.benchmark.utils.model_postprocessors import extract_non_reasoning_content

models = [
    dict(
        attr="service",
        type=VLLMCustomAPIChat,
        abbr='vllm-api-general-chat',
        path="your_model_path",
        model="qwen3",
        request_rate = 0,
        retry = 2,
        host_ip = "127.0.0.1",
        host_port = 2001,
        max_out_len = 32768,
        batch_size = 32,
        trust_remote_code=False,
        generation_kwargs = dict(
            temperature = 0.6,
            top_k = 20,
            top_p = 0.95,
        ),
        pred_postprocessor=dict(type=extract_non_reasoning_content)
    )
]
```
**Run the accuracy evaluation using the aime2024 dataset as an example:**

```bash
ais_bench --models vllm_api_general_chat --datasets aime2024_gen_0_shot_chat_prompt --debug
```
> The --models parameter value corresponds to the abbr field in the configuration file above. Adjust max_out_len, batch_size, and dataset tasks based on your scenario.

> ## 8 Performance

Reviewer: The section title should be changed to "Performance Evaluation" to align with the template.

export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/aarch64-linux-gnu/libjemalloc.so.2:$LD_PRELOAD
export TASK_QUEUE_ENABLE=1
export VLLM_ASCEND_ENABLE_FLASHCOMM1=1

export VLLM_ASCEND_ENABLE_FUSED_MC2=1

vllm serve your_model_path \
    --served-model-name qwen3 \
    --host <host_ip> \
    --port <port> \
    --tensor-parallel-size 8 \
    --data-parallel-size 1 \
    --decode-context-parallel-size 2 \
    --prefill-context-parallel-size 2 \
    --enable-expert-parallel \
    --cp-kv-cache-interleave-size 128 \
    --max-num-seqs 32 \
    --max-model-len 135000 \
    --max-num-batched-tokens 16384 \
    --gpu-memory-utilization 0.85 \
    --trust-remote-code \
    --quantization ascend \
    --no-enable-prefix-caching \
    --hf-overrides '{"rope_parameters": {"rope_type":"yarn","rope_theta":1000000,"factor":4,"original_max_position_embeddings":131072}}' \
    --compilation-config '{"cudagraph_mode": "FULL_DECODE_ONLY"}' \
    --additional-config '{"enable_cpu_binding":true}'
```

### 9.2 Tuning Guidelines

#### 9.2.1 General Tuning Reference

Please refer to the [Public Performance Tuning Documentation](../../developer_guide/performance_and_debug/optimization_and_tuning.md) for tuning methods.

> Please refer to the [Feature Guide](../../user_guide/support_matrix/feature_matrix.md) for detailed feature descriptions

Reviewer: Missing period at the end of the sentence.
